middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/sd_card_reader_to_load_audio_files/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: SD card Reader to load Audio Files
has_toc: false
nav_order: 3
---

# Lab3: SD Card Reader Support to Load Audio Files with Harmony v3

This lab extends **previous one** by adding Secure Digital (SD) card reader functionality. The *audio_player_lab3* application shows how to edit the contents of an SD card. The [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5) is connected to a USB host, (typically a PC) and after a successful enumeration, the SD card is presented as a mass storage drive on the PC allowing you to add or delete contents.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Lab3: SD Card Reader Support to Load Audio Files with Harmony v3](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab3)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/sd_card_reader_to_load_audio_files/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: SD card Reader to load Audio Files
has_toc: false
nav_order: 3
---

# Lab3: SD Card Reader Support to Load Audio Files with Harmony v3

This lab extends **previous one** by adding Secure Digital (SD) card reader functionality. The *audio_player_lab3* application shows how to edit the contents of an SD card. The <a href="https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5" target="_blank">PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II</a> is connected to a USB host, (typically a PC) and after a successful enumeration, the SD card is presented as a mass storage drive on the PC allowing you to add or delete contents.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="Lab3: SD Card Reader Support to Load Audio Files with Harmony v3" target="_blank">https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab3</a>

## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
