basic/mhc_memory_protection_unit_configuration/readme.md, before:

---
title: MHC Memory Protection Unit Configuration
parent: Basic
has_toc: false
nav_order: 7
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)
# MHC Memory protection Unit (MPU) Configuration

MHC plug-in consists of following plug-ins/managers based on the device selection while creating the project.

- Clock Configuration: Enables to configure Master, Generic, Peripheral and System Clocks
- Pin Configuration: Enables to configure pins in the Pin Configuration area depending upon the application requirements
- NVIC Configuration: Enables to configure enable/disable of interrupts, interrupt priority and name
- DMA Configuration: Enables to configure DMA Channels
- MPU Configuration: Enables to configure different zones of Memory Protection Unit

To open **MPU Configuration** MHC plug-in, perform this action MHC → Tools then click **MPU Configuration** .

<img src = "images/figure_5.11.png" width="288" height="377" align="middle">  

**Note**: MHC plugins availability will vary depending on the device selection while creating the project.

## MPU Configuration

Users can configure MPU regions for memory spaces, such as ITCM, DTCM, Flash, SRAM, Peripherals, EBI, QSPI, USBHS and System. Users can also set the different attributes for these memory spaces. See image below:


<img src = "images/figure_5.18.png" width="800" height="350" align="middle">

**Note**: In the screenshot above, the MHC MPU configuration for SAME70 MCU is shown as an example. The MHC MPU configuration for other PIC or SAM MCUs may differ from the one shown above. 

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()

Commit message:

[DOCS] Added version information on basic pages and updated logos. M32MM-459

basic/mhc_memory_protection_unit_configuration/readme.md, after:

---
title: MHC Memory Protection Unit Configuration
parent: Harmony Basics
has_toc: false
nav_order: 7
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)
# MHC Memory protection Unit (MPU) Configuration

MHC plug-in consists of following plug-ins/managers based on the device selection while creating the project.

- Clock Configuration: Enables to configure Master, Generic, Peripheral and System Clocks
- Pin Configuration: Enables to configure pins in the Pin Configuration area depending upon the application requirements
- NVIC Configuration: Enables to configure enable/disable of interrupts, interrupt priority and name
- DMA Configuration: Enables to configure DMA Channels
- MPU Configuration: Enables to configure different zones of Memory Protection Unit

To open **MPU Configuration** MHC plug-in, perform this action MHC → Tools then click **MPU Configuration** .

<img src = "images/figure_5.11.png" width="288" height="377" align="middle">  

**Note**: MHC plugins availability will vary depending on the device selection while creating the project.

## MPU Configuration

Users can configure MPU regions for memory spaces, such as ITCM, DTCM, Flash, SRAM, Peripherals, EBI, QSPI, USBHS and System. Users can also set the different attributes for these memory spaces. See image below:


<img src = "images/figure_5.18.png" width="800" height="350" align="middle">

**Note**: In the screenshot above, the MHC MPU configuration for SAME70 MCU is shown as an example. The MHC MPU configuration for other PIC or SAM MCUs may differ from the one shown above. 

## Note
<span style="color:blue"> *This page has been verified with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  

 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.7.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.7.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.7.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.7.0)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.4.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.4.0)
 - MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.5.0
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.40](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.41](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)

 <span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally there could be minor differences with the newer versions of the tools. </span>  

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()
