middleware/graphics_quick_start_application_guides/readme.md, before:

---
title: Graphics Quick Start Application Guides
parent: Middleware
has_toc: false
nav_order: 8
---

# Graphics Quick Start Application Guides

A collection of application quickstart tutorials are provided with MPLAB Harmony Graphics Suite to help users understand and create applications quickly. These guides were created using Microchip [supported development boards](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/wiki/Supported-Development-Boards).

Although these guides run on Microchip boards, customers are free to reference our solutions to enable their custom designs.

Note: Complete applications are part of each MPLAB Harmony distribution. Visit the [quickstart apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/tree/master/apps) and [feature apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps/tree/master/apps) for more information.

### QuickStart Applications Demonstrate
- Preferred Harmony Practices
- Example Board Support Package (BSP)
- Detailed Pin Configuration
- Recommended Peripheral and external device communication

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Graphics Quick Start Application Guides](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/wiki/Application-QuickStart)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

middleware/graphics_quick_start_application_guides/readme.md, after:

---
title: Graphics Quick Start Application Guides
parent: Middleware
has_toc: false
nav_order: 8
---

# Graphics Quick Start Application Guides

A collection of application quickstart tutorials are provided with MPLAB Harmony Graphics Suite to help users understand and create applications quickly. These guides were created using Microchip <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/wiki/Supported-Development-Boards" target="_blank">supported development boards</a>.

Although these guides run on Microchip boards, customers are free to reference our solutions to enable their custom designs.

Note: Complete applications are part of each MPLAB Harmony distribution. Visit the <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/tree/master/apps" target="_blank">quickstart apps</a> and <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps/tree/master/apps" target="_blank">feature apps</a> for more information.

### QuickStart Applications Demonstrate
- Preferred Harmony Practices
- Example Board Support Package (BSP)
- Detailed Pin Configuration
- Recommended Peripheral and external device communication

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/wiki/Application-QuickStart" target="_blank">Graphics Quick Start Application Guides</a>


## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
