peripheral/pic32mz_getting_started/readme.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started with PLIBs on PIC32MZ EF MCUs
parent: Peripheral
has_toc: false
nav_order: 6
---

# Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs

This tutorial shows you how to use the MPLAB Harmony Configurator (MHC) to create an application that gets you started in developing applications on PIC32MZ EF MCUs using MPLAB Harmony v3 software framework.

The application makes use of [Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320209) and [I/O1 Xplained Pro Extension Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/ATIO1-XPRO).

The application reads the current room temperature from the temperature sensor on the I/O1 Xplained Pro Extension. The temperature read is displayed on a serial console periodically every 500 milliseconds. The periodicity of the temperature values displayed on the serial console is changed to one second, two seconds, four seconds, and back to 500 milliseconds every time you press the switch SW1 on the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board. Also, LED1 is toggled every time the temperature is displayed on the serial console.

The application you create utilizes:

- I²C Peripheral Library (PLIB) to read the temperature from a temperature sensor.
- TMR1 PLIB to periodically sample temperature sensor data.
- Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter (UART) and Direct Memory Access (DMA) PLIBs to print the temperature values on a COM (serial) port terminal application running on a PC.
- GPIO PLIB to change the periodicity of temperature sensor data read using the SWITCH press event and toggle the LED.


For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:pic32mzef-getting-started-training-module)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

peripheral/pic32mz_getting_started/readme.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started with PLIBs on PIC32MZ EF MCUs
parent: Peripheral
has_toc: false
nav_order: 6
---

# Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs

This tutorial shows you how to use the MPLAB Harmony Configurator (MHC) to create an application that gets you started in developing applications on PIC32MZ EF MCUs using MPLAB Harmony v3 software framework.

The application makes use of <a href="https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320209" target="_blank">Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board</a> and <a href="https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/ATIO1-XPRO" target="_blank">I/O1 Xplained Pro Extension Kit</a>.

The application reads the current room temperature from the temperature sensor on the I/O1 Xplained Pro Extension. The temperature read is displayed on a serial console periodically every 500 milliseconds. The periodicity of the temperature values displayed on the serial console is changed to one second, two seconds, four seconds, and back to 500 milliseconds every time you press the switch SW1 on the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board. Also, LED1 is toggled every time the temperature is displayed on the serial console.

The application you create utilizes:

- I²C Peripheral Library (PLIB) to read the temperature from a temperature sensor.
- TMR1 PLIB to periodically sample temperature sensor data.
- Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter (UART) and Direct Memory Access (DMA) PLIBs to print the temperature values on a COM (serial) port terminal application running on a PC.
- GPIO PLIB to change the periodicity of temperature sensor data read using the SWITCH press event and toggle the LED.


For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:pic32mzef-getting-started-training-module" target="_blank">Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs</a>



## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
