middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/audio_tone_using_a_lookup_table/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Audio Tone using a lookup table
has_toc: false
nav_order: 1
---

# Lab 1: Audio-Tone Generation Using a Lookup Table with Harmony v3


In this lab, you will create a simple MPLAB Harmony project from scratch. You will use the MHC to configure the codec on the [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5). The application streams an audio tone (stored in the form of a lookup table in memory) over the I²S interface which gets played on the audio codec.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Lab 1: Audio-Tone Generation Using a Lookup Table with Harmony v3](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab1)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/audio_tone_using_a_lookup_table/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Audio Tone using a lookup table
has_toc: false
nav_order: 1
---

# Lab 1: Audio-Tone Generation Using a Lookup Table with Harmony v3


In this lab, you will create a simple MPLAB Harmony project from scratch. You will use the MHC to configure the codec on the <a href="https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5" target="_blank">PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II</a>. The application streams an audio tone (stored in the form of a lookup table in memory) over the I²S interface which gets played on the audio codec.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab1" target="_blank">Lab 1: Audio-Tone Generation Using a Lookup Table with Harmony v3</a>


## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
