middleware/create_first_tcpip_application/readme.md, before:

---
title: Create first TCPIP Application
parent: Middleware
has_toc: false
nav_order: 13
---

# Create your first TCP/IP Application

This tutorial is a getting-started guide to demonstrate how to create a MPLAB® Harmony 3 based TCP/IP application project.

This tutorial implements a simple TCP/IP Client application on a microcontroller development board. This will guide you through the steps required to create a new TCP/IP application using MPLAB® Harmony 3 modules.

Note : The getting-started guide demonstrates the creation of a TCP/IP demo on the [SAM E70 Xplained Ultra Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320113) with the [LAN8740 PHY Daughter board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/AC320004-3). These steps can be applied for other development boards applying the device/board specific configuration changes.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Create your first TCP/IP Application](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net/wiki/Create-your-first-tcpip-application)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

middleware/create_first_tcpip_application/readme.md, after:

---
title: Create first TCPIP Application
parent: Middleware
has_toc: false
nav_order: 13
---

# Create your first TCP/IP Application

This tutorial is a getting-started guide to demonstrate how to create a MPLAB® Harmony 3 based TCP/IP application project.

This tutorial implements a simple TCP/IP Client application on a microcontroller development board. This will guide you through the steps required to create a new TCP/IP application using MPLAB® Harmony 3 modules.

Note : The getting-started guide demonstrates the creation of a TCP/IP demo on the <a href="https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320113" target="_blank">SAM E70 Xplained Ultra board</a> with the <a href="https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/AC320004-3" target="_blank">LAN8740 PHY Daughter board</a>. These steps can be applied for other development boards applying the device/board specific configuration changes.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net/wiki/Create-your-first-tcpip-application" target="_blank">Create your first TCP/IP Application</a>


## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
