basic/create_new_trust_zone_project/readme.md, before:

---
title: Create new TrustZone Project
parent: Basic
has_toc: false
nav_order: 15
---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)

# Creating a New TrustZone Project

To create a new TrustZone project, in MPLAB® X IDE, Select File > New Project or click <img src = "images/btn_new_project.png">. The New Project wizard will open. Perform following steps:

   

1. Choose Project:
   - In the Choose Project pane, select the Microchip Embedded category.
   - In the Projects pane, select 32-bit MPLAB® Harmony 3 Project, then click Next.
    <img src = "images/new_project_step1.png" width="730" height="500" align="middle">  


    **Note**: If the 32-Bit MPLAB® Harmony 3 Project type is not listed under the Microchip Embedded category, please download and install MPLAB® Harmony 3 Configurator before continuing with these steps.
2. Framework Selection:
   - Provide the framework path where Harmony 3 repositorries have been downloaded, then click Next.

        <img src = "images/new_project_step2.png" width="750" height="550" align="middle">  


3. Project Settings:
    - Location: Indicates the path to the root folder of the new project. All project files will be placed in this folder.
    - Folder: Indicates the name of the MPLAB® X IDE folder.
    - Name: Enter name of the project which you want to see in MPLAB® X IDE, click Next.
    - Path: The path information will be updated automatically as and when users make changes to other fields.

        <img src = "images/new_trustzone_project_step3.png" width="750" height="550" align="middle"> 

    **Note**: Click the "Show Visual Help" button to open a contextual help window for a detailed description of various fields in the Project Settings.

4. Configuration Settings:
   - Name: Enter the configuration name.
   - Target Device: Choose target device
   - TrustZone Enabled: Select checkbox and click Finish to launch MPLAB® Harmony Configurator (MHC). After clicking the Finish button, MHC will create Secure and Non-secure MPLAB® X Projects.

    <img src = "images/new_trustzone_project_step4.png" width="750" height="550" align="middle"> 

    **Note**:
     - After clicking the Finish button, if MHC does not launch, user can launch it by selecting
     **Tools > Embedded > MPLAB® Harmony 3 Configurator** from the MPLAB® X IDE.


The MHC plug-in will open either inside MPLAB® X window (native mode) or in a new window (standalone mode). This setting can be done in ***MPLAB® X > Tools > Options > Plugins > MPLAB® Harmony Configurator 3 > Window Manager***.


<img src = "images/trustzone_project.png" width="800" height="415" align="middle"> 


TrustZone Project uses two projects viz., Secure and Non-Secure Project that work together on the same MCU and offering security isolation between the Trusted and the Non-trusted resources in the device.
- Secure Project:
  - Secure project contains harmony project file harmony.prj. And this project also contains a configuration file for both Secure and Non-secure project.
  - Secure project must be selected as Main Project to launch MHC.
  - Once the Harmony code is generated, Secure user application should be developed in secure "main.c". And "veneer.c" and "veneer.h" files should be used for the Non-secure to Secure function calls and vice versa.
  - Secure project is a loadable project from the Non-secure project. When Secure Project builds it generates Secure Gateway (SG) library ([configuration name]_Secure_sg_veneer.lib) which will be used by the Non-secure project while building the Non-secure project.
- Non-secure Project:
  - Once the Harmony code is generated, Non-secure user application should be developed in Non-secure "main.c".
  - When Non-secure Project builds, it first builds Secure Project and then Non-secure project and  generates target binaries to be executed on the device.

## Runing TrustZone Project

Following steps need to be done to run TrustZone project:
- In MPLAB® X Non-secure Project properties, appropriate compiler, hardware tools and DFP should be selected as shown in the figure below.

    <img src = "images/nonsecure_project_properties.png" width="750" height="480" align="middle"> 

- Select Non-secure Project as Main Project, Non-secure Project can be then build and programmed using MPLAB® X "Make and Program Device Main Project" option.

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()

Commit message:

[DOCS] Added version information on basic pages and updated logos. M32MM-459

basic/create_new_trust_zone_project/readme.md, after:

---
title: Create new TrustZone Project
parent: Harmony Basics
has_toc: false
nav_order: 15
---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)

# Creating a New TrustZone Project

To create a new TrustZone project, in MPLAB® X IDE, Select File > New Project or click <img src = "images/btn_new_project.png">. The New Project wizard will open. Perform following steps:

   

1. Choose Project:
   - In the Choose Project pane, select the Microchip Embedded category.
   - In the Projects pane, select 32-bit MPLAB® Harmony 3 Project, then click Next.
    <img src = "images/new_project_step1.png" width="730" height="500" align="middle">  


    **Note**: If the 32-Bit MPLAB® Harmony 3 Project type is not listed under the Microchip Embedded category, please download and install MPLAB® Harmony 3 Configurator before continuing with these steps.
2. Framework Selection:
   - Provide the framework path where Harmony 3 repositorries have been downloaded, then click Next.

        <img src = "images/new_project_step2.png" width="750" height="550" align="middle">  


3. Project Settings:
    - Location: Indicates the path to the root folder of the new project. All project files will be placed in this folder.
    - Folder: Indicates the name of the MPLAB® X IDE folder.
    - Name: Enter name of the project which you want to see in MPLAB® X IDE, click Next.
    - Path: The path information will be updated automatically as and when users make changes to other fields.

        <img src = "images/new_trustzone_project_step3.png" width="750" height="550" align="middle"> 

    **Note**: Click the "Show Visual Help" button to open a contextual help window for a detailed description of various fields in the Project Settings.

4. Configuration Settings:
   - Name: Enter the configuration name.
   - Target Device: Choose target device
   - TrustZone Enabled: Select checkbox and click Finish to launch MPLAB® Harmony Configurator (MHC). After clicking the Finish button, MHC will create Secure and Non-secure MPLAB® X Projects.

    <img src = "images/new_trustzone_project_step4.png" width="750" height="550" align="middle"> 

    **Note**:
     - After clicking the Finish button, if MHC does not launch, user can launch it by selecting
     **Tools > Embedded > MPLAB® Harmony 3 Configurator** from the MPLAB® X IDE.


The MHC plug-in will open either inside MPLAB® X window (native mode) or in a new window (standalone mode). This setting can be done in ***MPLAB® X > Tools > Options > Plugins > MPLAB® Harmony Configurator 3 > Window Manager***.


<img src = "images/trustzone_project.png" width="800" height="415" align="middle"> 


TrustZone Project uses two projects viz., Secure and Non-Secure Project that work together on the same MCU and offering security isolation between the Trusted and the Non-trusted resources in the device.
- Secure Project:
  - Secure project contains harmony project file harmony.prj. And this project also contains a configuration file for both Secure and Non-secure project.
  - Secure project must be selected as Main Project to launch MHC.
  - Once the Harmony code is generated, Secure user application should be developed in secure "main.c". And "veneer.c" and "veneer.h" files should be used for the Non-secure to Secure function calls and vice versa.
  - Secure project is a loadable project from the Non-secure project. When Secure Project builds it generates Secure Gateway (SG) library ([configuration name]_Secure_sg_veneer.lib) which will be used by the Non-secure project while building the Non-secure project.
- Non-secure Project:
  - Once the Harmony code is generated, Non-secure user application should be developed in Non-secure "main.c".
  - When Non-secure Project builds, it first builds Secure Project and then Non-secure project and  generates target binaries to be executed on the device.

## Runing TrustZone Project

Following steps need to be done to run TrustZone project:
- In MPLAB® X Non-secure Project properties, appropriate compiler, hardware tools and DFP should be selected as shown in the figure below.

    <img src = "images/nonsecure_project_properties.png" width="750" height="480" align="middle"> 

- Select Non-secure Project as Main Project, Non-secure Project can be then build and programmed using MPLAB® X "Make and Program Device Main Project" option.

## Note
<span style="color:blue"> *This page has been verified with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  

 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.7.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.7.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.7.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.7.0)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.4.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.4.0)
 - MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.5.0
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.40](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.41](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)

 <span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally there could be minor differences with the newer versions of the tools. </span>  

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()
