middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/display_graphics_to_select_and_play_audio_file/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Display Graphics to Select and Play Audio File
has_toc: false
nav_order: 5
---

# Lab 5: Display Graphics Support to Select and Play Audio File

In this lab, you will add to the **previous one**, a graphics display UI on the [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5). The *audio_player_lab5* application displays audio tracks from the SD card in a list box. You can navigate the list to select and play a track. It also provides a volume increase/decrease scroll bar and a mute on/off button. This lab will demonstrate the configuration and integration of additional modules to *audio_player_lab4* using the MPLAB Harmony 3 Configurator (MHC), thereby extending its functionality.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Lab 5: Display Graphics Support to Select and Play Audio File](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab5)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/display_graphics_to_select_and_play_audio_file/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Display Graphics to Select and Play Audio File
has_toc: false
nav_order: 5
---

# Lab 5: Display Graphics Support to Select and Play Audio File

In this lab, you will add to the **previous one**, a graphics display UI on the <a href="https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5" target="_blank">PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II</a>. The *audio_player_lab5* application displays audio tracks from the SD card in a list box. You can navigate the list to select and play a track. It also provides a volume increase/decrease scroll bar and a mute on/off button. This lab will demonstrate the configuration and integration of additional modules to *audio_player_lab4* using the MPLAB Harmony 3 Configurator (MHC), thereby extending its functionality.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab5" target="_blank">Lab 5: Display Graphics Support to Select and Play Audio File</a>

## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
