source/migration/readme.md, before:

---
title: Migration Guides
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 3
---
![](migration.png) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../../readme.md)  




# MPLAB Harmony Migration Guides Documentation

This page contains quick documentation to migrate to MPLAB® Harmony 3.   

## Harmony 2 to Harmony 3
1. ### [Differences between MPLAB Harmony 2 and Harmony 3](./differences_harmony_2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
2. ### [MPLAB Harmony 3 Application Development Guide for MPLAB Harmony 2 Users](./harmony_2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
3. ### [Graphics Applications](./aria_graphics_harmoy2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
4. ### [TCP/IP Applications](./tcpiip_harmoy2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
5. ### [USB Applications](./usb_harmoy2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)

## Atmel Studio, ASF, START to Harmony 3
1. ### [Introduction to MPLAB and Harmony 3 for Atmel Studio and ASF users](./introduction_mplabx_harmony_3_to_studio_asf_users/readme.md)
2. ### [Porting Application from ASF3 to MPLAB Harmony 3 Framework](./asf_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
3. ### [Atmel START to MPLAB Harmony 3 Migration Guide](./atmel_start_to_harmony_3/readme.md)

### **Note:**  
This page provides a quick reference covering the Migration to MPLAB Harmony 3. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.  

Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp" target="_blank">csp</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core" target="_blank">core</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb" target="_blank">usb</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net" target="_blank">net</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio" target="_blank">audio</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps" target="_blank">gfx_apps</a>, etc.

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()

Commit message:

[DOCS] Added migration guides for SAMD21 CNANO boards 1. Migration guide from PIC18F to SAMD21 2. Migration guide from AVR ATMega4809 to SAMD21
M32MM-561

source/migration/readme.md, after:

---
title: Migration Guides
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 3
---
![](migration.png) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../../readme.md)  




# MPLAB Harmony Migration Guides Documentation

This page contains quick documentation to migrate to MPLAB® Harmony 3.   

## Harmony 2 to Harmony 3
1. ### [Differences between MPLAB Harmony 2 and Harmony 3](./differences_harmony_2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
2. ### [MPLAB Harmony 3 Application Development Guide for MPLAB Harmony 2 Users](./harmony_2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
3. ### [Graphics Applications](./aria_graphics_harmoy2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
4. ### [TCP/IP Applications](./tcpiip_harmoy2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
5. ### [USB Applications](./usb_harmoy2_to_harmony_3/readme.md)

## Atmel Studio, ASF, START to Harmony 3
1. ### [Introduction to MPLAB and Harmony 3 for Atmel Studio and ASF users](./introduction_mplabx_harmony_3_to_studio_asf_users/readme.md)
2. ### [Porting Application from ASF3 to MPLAB Harmony 3 Framework](./asf_to_harmony_3/readme.md)
3. ### [Atmel START to MPLAB Harmony 3 Migration Guide](./atmel_start_to_harmony_3/readme.md)

## 8 bit MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC) to 32 bit MPLAB Harmony Configurator (MHC)
1. ### [Application migration from 8-bit PIC18F to 32-bit SAM D21](./pic18f_to_samd21_migration/readme.md)
1. ### [Application migration from 8-bit AVR to 32-bit SAM D21](./atmega4809_to_samd21_migration/readme.md)


### **Note:**  
This page provides a quick reference covering the Migration to MPLAB Harmony 3. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.  

Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp" target="_blank">csp</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core" target="_blank">core</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb" target="_blank">usb</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net" target="_blank">net</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio" target="_blank">audio</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps" target="_blank">gfx_apps</a>, etc.

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()
