source/peripheral/readme.md, before:

---
title: Peripheral Libraries
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---
![](peripheral.png) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../../readme.md)  

# MPLAB Harmony Peripheral Libraries Documentation

This page contains quick documentation for MPLAB® Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage.   

## Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAMC2x MCUs](./samc2x_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D5x/E5x MCUs](./samd5x_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM L10 MCUs](./saml10_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D21 MCUs](./samd21_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs](./pic32mz_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MX 470 MCUs](./pic32mx_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MK GP MCUs](./pic32mk_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAMC2x (Cortex M0+) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./samc2x_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAM L21 (Cortex M0+) MCUs using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./saml21_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAM L10 (Cortex M23) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./saml10_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAM E54 (Cortex M4) MCU Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./same54_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Arm TrustZone Getting Started Application on SAM L11 MCUs](./arm_trustzone_saml11_getting_started/readme.md)


## Drivers
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers and System Services on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started_drivers/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs using FreeRTOS](./same70_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM D21 MCUs Using FreeRTOS](./samd21_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)

## Web Links
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System%20_Configuration_and_Usage%20on_SAME5x_%20Devices_DS90003226A.pdf" target="_blank">Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM E5x (Cortex M4) Devices</a>  
 <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System_Configuration_Usage_on_SAMC2x(Cortex%20M0+)_%20Devices_DS90003227A.pdf" target="_blank">Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM C2x (Cortex M0+) Devices</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Various_Timers_%20on_SAM%20Device_DS90003230A.pdf" target="_blank">Various Timers on SAM Devices</a>
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Use_%20TCM_on_Cortex-%20Based_MCU_with_%20XC32Compiler_DS90003240A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Use the TCM on A Cortex-M7 Based MCU with the XC32 Compiler</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Create_Non-Cacheabl_%20Memory_Region_on_Cortex-M7_(SAME70)_MCU_Using_MPLAB_Harmonyv3_DS90003260A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Create Non-Cacheable Memory Region on CortexM7 (SAM S70/ E70/ V70/ V71) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>  
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1001233" target="_blank">SleepWalking with Event System Using the SAM E54</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/Appnotes/Execute-In-Place%20_with_QSPI_on_%20Cortex-M7_MCUs_Using_MPLAB_Harmony_v3_DS00003443A.pdf" target="_blank">Execute-In-Place (XIP) with QSPI on Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>  
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1002029" target="_blank">Using XDMAC with QSPI on Arm Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/90003243A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Wake-up Fast From an External Event on Cortex M0+ Based MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1003095" target="_blank">Using Sigma-Delta Analog-to-Digital Converter (SDADC) on a SAMC MCU with MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1005197" target="_blank">Live Update Application on PIC32MZ MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1005443" target="_blank">Live Update Application on SAM E54 MCU Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>

## Videos
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=S02mAli_DTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/S02mAli_DTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMD21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=WECETngdYTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/WECETngdYTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMC21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=KTEajJQ4ukc
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/KTEajJQ4ukc/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAME54 Using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=P_sm5OwwQlg
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/P_sm5OwwQlg/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with PIC32MZ EF using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=0GDB7ey2iCA
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/0GDB7ey2iCA/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAM E70 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=xxK6kH8h7No
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/xxK6kH8h7No/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAML11 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a>  






### **Note:**  
This page provides a quick reference covering the MPLAB Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.  

Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp" target="_blank">csp</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core" target="_blank">core</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb" target="_blank">usb</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net" target="_blank">net</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio" target="_blank">audio</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps" target="_blank">gfx_apps</a>, etc.

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()

Commit message:

[DOCS] Added TM for SAMC2x and SAME5x on drivers and freertos. M32MM-1136

source/peripheral/readme.md, after:

---
title: Peripheral Libraries
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---
![](peripheral.png) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../../readme.md)  

# MPLAB Harmony Peripheral Libraries Documentation

This page contains quick documentation for MPLAB® Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage.   

## Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAMC2x MCUs](./samc2x_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D5x/E5x MCUs](./samd5x_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM L10 MCUs](./saml10_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D21 MCUs](./samd21_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs](./pic32mz_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MX 470 MCUs](./pic32mx_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MK GP MCUs](./pic32mk_getting_started/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAMC2x (Cortex M0+) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./samc2x_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAM L21 (Cortex M0+) MCUs using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./saml21_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAM L10 (Cortex M23) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./saml10_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Low Power Application on SAM E54 (Cortex M4) MCU Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./same54_low_power/readme.md)
- ### [Arm TrustZone Getting Started Application on SAM L11 MCUs](./arm_trustzone_saml11_getting_started/readme.md)


## Drivers
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers and System Services on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started_drivers/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs using FreeRTOS](./same70_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM D21 MCUs Using FreeRTOS](./samd21_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E5x MCUs Using FreeRTOS](./same5x_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)
- ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM C2x MCUs Using FreeRTOS](./samc2x_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)



## Web Links
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System%20_Configuration_and_Usage%20on_SAME5x_%20Devices_DS90003226A.pdf" target="_blank">Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM E5x (Cortex M4) Devices</a>  
 <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System_Configuration_Usage_on_SAMC2x(Cortex%20M0+)_%20Devices_DS90003227A.pdf" target="_blank">Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM C2x (Cortex M0+) Devices</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Various_Timers_%20on_SAM%20Device_DS90003230A.pdf" target="_blank">Various Timers on SAM Devices</a>
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Use_%20TCM_on_Cortex-%20Based_MCU_with_%20XC32Compiler_DS90003240A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Use the TCM on A Cortex-M7 Based MCU with the XC32 Compiler</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Create_Non-Cacheabl_%20Memory_Region_on_Cortex-M7_(SAME70)_MCU_Using_MPLAB_Harmonyv3_DS90003260A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Create Non-Cacheable Memory Region on CortexM7 (SAM S70/ E70/ V70/ V71) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>  
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1001233" target="_blank">SleepWalking with Event System Using the SAM E54</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/Appnotes/Execute-In-Place%20_with_QSPI_on_%20Cortex-M7_MCUs_Using_MPLAB_Harmony_v3_DS00003443A.pdf" target="_blank">Execute-In-Place (XIP) with QSPI on Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>  
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1002029" target="_blank">Using XDMAC with QSPI on Arm Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>  
- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/90003243A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Wake-up Fast From an External Event on Cortex M0+ Based MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1003095" target="_blank">Using Sigma-Delta Analog-to-Digital Converter (SDADC) on a SAMC MCU with MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1005197" target="_blank">Live Update Application on PIC32MZ MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1005443" target="_blank">Live Update Application on SAM E54 MCU Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How-to-Move-an-Application-into-a-Desired-Flash-Memory-Location-with-the-Help-of-Linker-Script-TB-DS90003298A.pdf" target="_blank">Handling Cache Coherency Issues at Runtime Using Cache Maintenance Operations on Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Multiplexed-and-Remappable-Functionalities-on-IOpins-on-PIC32M-Devices-Using-MPLAB-HarmonyV3-DS90003296.pdf" target="_blank">Multiplexed and Remappable Functionalities on I/O pins on PIC32M Devices Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How-to-Move-an-Application-into-a-Desired-Flash-Memory-Location-with-the-Help-of-Linker-Script-TB-DS90003298A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Move an Application into a Desired Flash Memory Location with the Help of Linker Script on SAM E54</a>



## Videos
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=S02mAli_DTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/S02mAli_DTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMD21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=WECETngdYTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/WECETngdYTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMC21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=KTEajJQ4ukc
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/KTEajJQ4ukc/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAME54 Using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=P_sm5OwwQlg
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/P_sm5OwwQlg/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with PIC32MZ EF using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=0GDB7ey2iCA
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/0GDB7ey2iCA/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAM E70 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=xxK6kH8h7No
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/xxK6kH8h7No/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAML11 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a>  






### **Note:**  
This page provides a quick reference covering the MPLAB Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.  

Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp" target="_blank">csp</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core" target="_blank">core</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb" target="_blank">usb</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net" target="_blank">net</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio" target="_blank">audio</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps" target="_blank">gfx_apps</a>, etc.

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()
