peripheral/readme.md, before:

---
title: Peripheral
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---
![](peripheral.png)
# MPLAB Harmony Peripheral Documentation

This page contains quick documentation for MPLAB® Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage.   

## Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs)
1. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAMC2x MCUs](./samc2x_getting_started/readme.md)
2. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D5x/E5x MCUs](./samd5x_getting_started/readme.md)
3. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started/readme.md)
4. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM L10 MCUs](./saml10_getting_started/readme.md)
5. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D21 MCUs](./samd21_getting_started/readme.md)
6. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs](./pic32mz_getting_started/readme.md)
7. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MX 470 MCUs](./pic32mx_getting_started/readme.md)
8. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MK GP MCUs](./pic32mk_getting_started/readme.md)
9. ### [Low Power Application on SAMC2x (Cortex M0+) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./samc2x_low_power/readme.md)
10. ### [Low Power Application on SAM L21 (Cortex M0+) MCUs using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./saml21_low_power/readme.md)

## Drivers
11. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers and System Services on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started_drivers/readme.md)
12. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs using FreeRTOS](./same70_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)

## Web Links


1. [Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM E5x (Cortex M4) Devices](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System%20_Configuration_and_Usage%20on_SAME5x_%20Devices_DS90003226A.pdf)
2. [Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM C2x (Cortex M0+) Devices](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System_Configuration_Usage_on_SAMC2x(Cortex%20M0+)_%20Devices_DS90003227A.pdf)
3. [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf) 
4. [Various Timers on SAM Devices](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Various_Timers_%20on_SAM%20Device_DS90003230A.pdf)
5. [How to Use the TCM on A Cortex-M7 Based MCU with the XC32 Compiler](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Use_%20TCM_on_Cortex-%20Based_MCU_with_%20XC32Compiler_DS90003240A.pdf)
6. [How to Create Non-Cacheable Memory Region on CortexM7 (SAM S70/ E70/ V70/ V71) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Create_Non-Cacheabl_%20Memory_Region_on_Cortex-M7_(SAME70)_MCU_Using_MPLAB_Harmonyv3_DS90003260A.pdf)
7. [SleepWalking with Event System Using the SAM E54](https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1001233)
8. [Execute-In-Place (XIP) with QSPI on Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/Appnotes/Execute-In-Place%20_with_QSPI_on_%20Cortex-M7_MCUs_Using_MPLAB_Harmony_v3_DS00003443A.pdf)
9. [Using XDMAC with QSPI on Arm Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3](https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1002029)
10. [How to Wake-up Fast From an External Event on Cortex M0+ Based MCUs](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/90003243A.pdf)















### **Note:**  
This page provides a quick reference covering the MPLAB Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.  
  
Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like [csp](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp), [core](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core), [usb](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb), [net](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net), [audio](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio), [gfx_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps), etc

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

peripheral/readme.md, after:

---
title: Peripheral
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---
![](peripheral.png)
# MPLAB Harmony Peripheral Documentation

This page contains quick documentation for MPLAB® Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage.   

## Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs)
1. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAMC2x MCUs](./samc2x_getting_started/readme.md)
2. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D5x/E5x MCUs](./samd5x_getting_started/readme.md)
3. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started/readme.md)
4. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM L10 MCUs](./saml10_getting_started/readme.md)
5. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D21 MCUs](./samd21_getting_started/readme.md)
6. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MZ EF MCUs](./pic32mz_getting_started/readme.md)
7. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MX 470 MCUs](./pic32mx_getting_started/readme.md)
8. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on PIC32MK GP MCUs](./pic32mk_getting_started/readme.md)
9. ### [Low Power Application on SAMC2x (Cortex M0+) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./samc2x_low_power/readme.md)
10. ### [Low Power Application on SAM L21 (Cortex M0+) MCUs using MPLAB Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](./saml21_low_power/readme.md)

## Drivers
11. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers and System Services on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs](./same70_getting_started_drivers/readme.md)
12. ### [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E70/S70/V70/V71 MCUs using FreeRTOS](./same70_getting_started_drivers_freertos/readme.md)

## Web Links


1. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System%20_Configuration_and_Usage%20on_SAME5x_%20Devices_DS90003226A.pdf" target="_blank">Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM E5x (Cortex M4) Devices</a>
2. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Clock_System_Configuration_Usage_on_SAMC2x(Cortex%20M0+)_%20Devices_DS90003227A.pdf" target="_blank">Clock System Configuration and Usage on SAM C2x (Cortex M0+) Devices</a>
3. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project</a>
4. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/Various_Timers_%20on_SAM%20Device_DS90003230A.pdf" target="_blank">Various Timers on SAM Devices</a>
5. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Use_%20TCM_on_Cortex-%20Based_MCU_with_%20XC32Compiler_DS90003240A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Use the TCM on A Cortex-M7 Based MCU with the XC32 Compiler</a>
6. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Create_Non-Cacheabl_%20Memory_Region_on_Cortex-M7_(SAME70)_MCU_Using_MPLAB_Harmonyv3_DS90003260A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Create Non-Cacheable Memory Region on CortexM7 (SAM S70/ E70/ V70/ V71) MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
7. <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1001233" target="_blank">SleepWalking with Event System Using the SAM E54</a>
8. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/Appnotes/Execute-In-Place%20_with_QSPI_on_%20Cortex-M7_MCUs_Using_MPLAB_Harmony_v3_DS00003443A.pdf" target="_blank">Execute-In-Place (XIP) with QSPI on Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
9. <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwappnotes/appnotes.aspx?appnote=en1002029" target="_blank">Using XDMAC with QSPI on Arm Cortex-M7 MCUs Using MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
10. <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/90003243A.pdf" target="_blank">How to Wake-up Fast From an External Event on Cortex M0+ Based MCUs</a>



### **Note:**  
This page provides a quick reference covering the MPLAB Harmony 3 Peripheral Libraries (PLIBs) and drivers usage. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.  

Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp" target="_blank">csp</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core" target="_blank">core</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb" target="_blank">usb</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net" target="_blank">net</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio" target="_blank">audio</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps" target="_blank">gfx_apps</a>, etc.

## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
