middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/audio_tone_using_text_file_in_sd_card/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Audio Tone using text fil in SD card
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---

# Lab 2: Audio-Tone Generation from a Text File Stored in an SD Card with Harmony v3


This lab adds to the **previous one**. The *audio_player_lab2* application reads an audio text file from the [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5) SD card and streams it over the PIC32 I²S interface to the audio CODEC. The audio file is saved as a .txt file with comma-separated left and right channel audio data. The *audio_player_lab2* application demonstrates the configuration and integration of the additional modules to *audio_player_lab1* using MHC, thereby extending its functionality.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Lab 2: Audio-Tone Generation from a Text File Stored in an SD Card with Harmony v3](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab2)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/audio_tone_using_text_file_in_sd_card/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Audio Tone using text fil in SD card
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---

# Lab 2: Audio-Tone Generation from a Text File Stored in an SD Card with Harmony v3


This lab adds to the **previous one**. The *audio_player_lab2* application reads an audio text file from the <a href="https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5" target="_blank">PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II</a> SD card and streams it over the PIC32 I²S interface to the audio CODEC. The audio file is saved as a .txt file with comma-separated left and right channel audio data. The *audio_player_lab2* application demonstrates the configuration and integration of the additional modules to *audio_player_lab1* using MHC, thereby extending its functionality.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab2" target="_blank">Lab 2: Audio-Tone Generation from a Text File Stored in an SD Card with Harmony v3</a>


## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
