middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/play_wav_audio_file_from_sd_card/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Play WAV Audio File from SD Card
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---

# Lab 4: Play a WAV Audio File from an SD Card with Harmony v3

 This lab extends **previous one** and add new functionality to it. This application reads a WAV audio file from the SD card on the [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5) and streams it over the PIC32 I²S interface through the audio CODEC. Here, we implement the functionality of an audio player (for WAV files only). The application switches to the next track when the current track playing is completed (assuming that there is more than one track on the SD card). This application also demonstrates the configuration and integration of the additional modules using MHC, thereby extending its functionality.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Lab 4: Play a WAV Audio File from an SD Card with Harmony v3](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab4)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

middleware/sdcard_audio_player_reader_tutorial/play_wav_audio_file_from_sd_card/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Middleware
parent: SD Card Audio Player Reader Tutorial
title: Play WAV Audio File from SD Card
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---

# Lab 4: Play a WAV Audio File from an SD Card with Harmony v3

 This lab extends **previous one** and add new functionality to it. This application reads a WAV audio file from the SD card on the <a href="https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5" target="_blank">PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II</a> and streams it over the PIC32 I²S interface through the audio CODEC. Here, we implement the functionality of an audio player (for WAV files only). The application switches to the next track when the current track playing is completed (assuming that there is more than one track on the SD card). This application also demonstrates the configuration and integration of the additional modules using MHC, thereby extending its functionality.

**Note**: This tutorial is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab4" target="_blank">Lab 4: Play a WAV Audio File from an SD Card with Harmony v3</a>


## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
