source/basic/readme.md, before:

---
title: Harmony Basics
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---

![](basic.png) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../../readme.md)

# MPLAB Harmony Basics Documentation
This page contains quick documentation for MPLAB® Harmony 3 Basics.
- ### [MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC) for Harmony 3 Projects](./mplab_harmony_3_code_configurator/readme.md)
- ### [MPLAB Harmony 3 Configurator (MHC)](./mplab_harmony_3_configurator/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Project Graph](./mhc_project_graph/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Clock Configuration](./mhc_clock_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Pin Configuration](./mhc_pin_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC NVIC Configuration](./mhc_nvic_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC DMA Configuration](./mhc_dma_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Memory protection Unit Configuration](./mhc_memory_protection_unit_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Code Generation](./mhc_code_generation/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Window Manager and Log Level](./mhc_window_manager_log_level/readme.md)
- ### [Create First MPLAB Harmony 3 Project](./create_first_harmony_3_project/readme.md)
- ### [Create "Hello World" application on SAM MCUs](./create_hello_world_sam_mcus/readme.md)
- ### [Create "Hello World" application on PIC MCUs](./create_hello_world_pic_mcus/readme.md)
- ### [Open an Existing Harmony 3 Project](./open_an_existing_harmony_3_project/readme.md)
- ### [Harmony 3 Packages](./harmony_3_packages/readme.md)
- ### [Create IAR or Keil project using MHC](./create_iar_or_keil_project_using_mhc/readme.md)
- ### [Create new TrustZone Project](./create_new_trust_zone_project/readme.md)
- ### [Differences Between MPLAB Harmony v3 Synchronous and Asynchronous Drivers](./harmony_sync_async_drivers/readme.md)
- ### [Difference Between MPLAB Harmony v3 PLIBs and Drivers](./harmony_drivers_plibs/readme.md)
- ### [MPLAB Harmony v3 Synchronous drivers and their usage in FreeRTOS based applications](./harmony_sync_drivers_freertos/readme.md)
- ### [Create a new MPLAB Harmony v3 project using MCC](./create_new_harmony_3_project_using_mcc/readme.md)
- ### [Update and Configure an Existing MHC-based MPLAB Harmony v3 Project to MCC-based Project](./update_mhc_harmony_3_project_to_mcc/readme.md)
- ### [Add a New Configuration to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](./add_new_configuration_to_harmony_3_project/readme.md)
- ### [MPLAB Harmony v3 Project Manifest Feature](./harmony_3_project_manifest/readme.md)


## Microprocessor units (MPUs) 
- ### [Getting started with SAM MPUs using MPLAB® Harmony 3](./sam_mpus_getting_started_harmony_3/readme.md)


## Web Links
- <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/wiki" target="_blank">How to Get Started with MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:new-proj" target="_blank">Create a New MPLAB Harmony v3 Project</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821" target="_blank">How to Set Up MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework</a>
- <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki" target="_blank">MPLAB Harmony Content Manager</a>

## Videos
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=5nt3D-Cmbus
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/5nt3D-Cmbus/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="How to Set-up the Tools Required to Get Started with MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=S02mAli_DTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/S02mAli_DTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMD21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=WECETngdYTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/WECETngdYTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMC21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=KTEajJQ4ukc
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/KTEajJQ4ukc/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAME54 Using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=P_sm5OwwQlg
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/P_sm5OwwQlg/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with PIC32MZ EF using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=0GDB7ey2iCA
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/0GDB7ey2iCA/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAM E70 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=xxK6kH8h7No
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/xxK6kH8h7No/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAML11 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a><a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=pg-g3hVwOHA
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/pg-g3hVwOHA/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the SAM IoT WG Development Board" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=2k893C6E_jE
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/2k893C6E_jE/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=xSpcSw_dtyU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/xSpcSw_dtyU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_h1TlXQlBXw
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/_h1TlXQlBXw/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the PIC32CM MC00 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ta9vvaY1RBU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/ta9vvaY1RBU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="MPLAB® Harmony Quick Docs Package" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FcY08Mj6DV0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/FcY08Mj6DV0/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Develop 32-bit MCU applications using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pulfWuNTyQ0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/pulfWuNTyQ0/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the PIC32MZ DA Curiosity Development Kit" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpABVoDCcmI
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/NpABVoDCcmI/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="MPLAB® Harmony Reference Applications Package" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdhltTWaDp0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/KdhltTWaDp0/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with MPLAB® Harmony v3 Using MPLAB Code Configurator" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=POwOhu4TAQM
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/POwOhu4TAQM/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started on the PIC32MK MCM Curiosity Pro Development Board
" /> </a>








### **Note:**
This page provides a quick reference covering the Basic features of MPLAB Harmony 3. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.
Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp" target="_blank">csp</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core" target="_blank">core</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb" target="_blank">usb</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net" target="_blank">net</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio" target="_blank">audio</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps" target="_blank">gfx_apps</a>, etc.

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()

Commit message:

[Quick Docs] Updated SAM9X60 MPU based Quick Docs readme.md files
                MPU32MM-35

source/basic/readme.md, after:

---
title: Harmony Basics
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---

![](basic.png) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../readme.md) [<img src="../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../../readme.md)

# MPLAB Harmony Basics Documentation
This page contains quick documentation for MPLAB® Harmony 3 Basics.
- ### [MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC) for Harmony 3 Projects](./mplab_harmony_3_code_configurator/readme.md)
- ### [MPLAB Harmony 3 Configurator (MHC)](./mplab_harmony_3_configurator/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Project Graph](./mhc_project_graph/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Clock Configuration](./mhc_clock_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Pin Configuration](./mhc_pin_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC NVIC Configuration](./mhc_nvic_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC DMA Configuration](./mhc_dma_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Memory protection Unit Configuration](./mhc_memory_protection_unit_configuration/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Code Generation](./mhc_code_generation/readme.md)
- ### [MHC Window Manager and Log Level](./mhc_window_manager_log_level/readme.md)
- ### [Create First MPLAB Harmony 3 Project](./create_first_harmony_3_project/readme.md)
- ### [Create "Hello World" application on SAM MCUs](./create_hello_world_sam_mcus/readme.md)
- ### [Create "Hello World" application on PIC MCUs](./create_hello_world_pic_mcus/readme.md)
- ### [Open an Existing Harmony 3 Project](./open_an_existing_harmony_3_project/readme.md)
- ### [Harmony 3 Packages](./harmony_3_packages/readme.md)
- ### [Create IAR or Keil project using MHC](./create_iar_or_keil_project_using_mhc/readme.md)
- ### [Create new TrustZone Project](./create_new_trust_zone_project/readme.md)
- ### [Differences Between MPLAB Harmony v3 Synchronous and Asynchronous Drivers](./harmony_sync_async_drivers/readme.md)
- ### [Difference Between MPLAB Harmony v3 PLIBs and Drivers](./harmony_drivers_plibs/readme.md)
- ### [MPLAB Harmony v3 Synchronous drivers and their usage in FreeRTOS based applications](./harmony_sync_drivers_freertos/readme.md)
- ### [Create a new MPLAB Harmony v3 project using MCC](./create_new_harmony_3_project_using_mcc/readme.md)
- ### [Update and Configure an Existing MHC-based MPLAB Harmony v3 Project to MCC-based Project](./update_mhc_harmony_3_project_to_mcc/readme.md)
- ### [Add a New Configuration to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](./add_new_configuration_to_harmony_3_project/readme.md)
- ### [MPLAB Harmony v3 Project Manifest Feature](./harmony_3_project_manifest/readme.md)


## Microprocessor units (MPUs) 
- ### [Configure first stage bootloader for SAM9X60 MPU](./sam9x60_configure_first_stage_bootloader/readme.md)
- ### [Configure/built and debug second stage bootloader(at91bootstrap) for SAM9X60 MPU](./sam9x60_configure_second_stage_bootloader/readme.md)
- ### [Develop a harmony based application for SAM9X60 MPU using MPLAB® X IDE](./sam9x60_getting_started_application_using_mcc/readme.md) 
- ### [Flash the at91bootstrap and harmony application binaries using SAM-BA tool](./sam9x60_flash_boot_application_using_samba/readme.md)

## Web Links
- <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/wiki" target="_blank">How to Get Started with MPLAB Harmony v3</a>
- <a href="https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:new-proj" target="_blank">Create a New MPLAB Harmony v3 Project</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821" target="_blank">How to Set Up MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework</a>
- <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki" target="_blank">MPLAB Harmony Content Manager</a>

## Videos
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=5nt3D-Cmbus
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/5nt3D-Cmbus/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="How to Set-up the Tools Required to Get Started with MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=S02mAli_DTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/S02mAli_DTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMD21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=WECETngdYTU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/WECETngdYTU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAMC21 using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=KTEajJQ4ukc
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/KTEajJQ4ukc/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAME54 Using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=P_sm5OwwQlg
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/P_sm5OwwQlg/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with PIC32MZ EF using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=0GDB7ey2iCA
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/0GDB7ey2iCA/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAM E70 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=xxK6kH8h7No
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/xxK6kH8h7No/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Create Your First Project with SAML11 using MPLAB Harmony v3" /> </a><a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=pg-g3hVwOHA
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/pg-g3hVwOHA/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the SAM IoT WG Development Board" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=2k893C6E_jE
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/2k893C6E_jE/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit" /> </a>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=xSpcSw_dtyU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/xSpcSw_dtyU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_h1TlXQlBXw
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/_h1TlXQlBXw/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the PIC32CM MC00 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ta9vvaY1RBU
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/ta9vvaY1RBU/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="MPLAB® Harmony Quick Docs Package" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FcY08Mj6DV0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/FcY08Mj6DV0/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Develop 32-bit MCU applications using MPLAB® Harmony v3" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pulfWuNTyQ0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/pulfWuNTyQ0/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with the PIC32MZ DA Curiosity Development Kit" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpABVoDCcmI
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/NpABVoDCcmI/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="MPLAB® Harmony Reference Applications Package" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdhltTWaDp0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/KdhltTWaDp0/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started with MPLAB® Harmony v3 Using MPLAB Code Configurator" /> </a>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=POwOhu4TAQM
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/POwOhu4TAQM/0.jpg"
alt="" width="240" height="180" border="10" title="Getting Started on the PIC32MK MCM Curiosity Pro Development Board
" /> </a>








### **Note:**
This page provides a quick reference covering the Basic features of MPLAB Harmony 3. MPLAB Harmony 3 solutions provides more peripheral or technology specific documentation.
Peripheral/Technology specific documentation are available in technology repositories like <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp" target="_blank">csp</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core" target="_blank">core</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb" target="_blank">usb</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net" target="_blank">net</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio" target="_blank">audio</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps" target="_blank">gfx_apps</a>, etc.

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()
