source/basic/mhc_project_graph/readme.md, before:

---
title: MHC Project Graph
parent: Harmony Basics
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)

# MHC Project Graph
The Project Graph displays all the instantiated component blocks. In Figure below BSP, USART and STDIO modules from Peripherals (CSP), I2C module from Harmony Core Driver, and FreeRTOS from Third-Party Software components are activated. MHC uses concept of Capability and Dependency for easy instantiation of modules.

## Generic Capability and Dependency
A generic capability has a common name that identifies an interface that can be provided by a component but does not have an implementation of its own. One or more other components must implement the capability as shown in the following figure.

<img src = "images/figure_5.6.png" width="710" height="375" align="middle">


- Point 1: Indicates the concept of Generic capabilities and dependency, i.e. FreeRTOS has exposed a generic capability on “RTOS” on which Harmony Core Service has created a generic dependency, up on satisfying these generic dependencies the color will turn to Green. Non-required dependencies are indicated as Yellow and indicate optional functionality that will not inhibit the operation of the component if absent. Required dependencies will display as Red, indicating that an error will likely occur during generation, compilation, or at runtime if the dependency is not satisfied. Similarly, Harmony Core Service has exposed a generic capability “Core Service” on which I2C driver has created a generic dependency. Generic dependencies connect automatically to generic capabilities and no connector line is required to bind the two.
- Point 2: Indicates how I2C dependency is satisfied by binding with the capability TWIHS0. The left side block is a capability i.e. TWIHS0 and the right-side block is a dependency i.e. “Instance 0” I2C.
- Point 3: Indicates how a new component can be generated at run-time by clicking button <img src = "images/btn_new_component.png"> creates a new generator database component. A generator database component can create unique instances of itself as needed. This is for things like components like bit-bang drivers that are defined in software, and thus can be added several times to a project if desired. Similarly, by clicking button <img src = "images/btn_delete_component.png">  deletes a component instantly.
- Point 4: Indicates the available capability of I2C driver. As mention above a non-required dependency is indicated as Yellow and indicates optional functionality that will not inhibit the operation of the component if absent.
- Point 5: Options to create, disband, add selected, view selected and configure group or container respectively. This is explained in detail in Section 5.3.2 Project Group Creation.
The following figure illustrates the unsatisfied direct dependency for I2C driver. User can see the list of satisfiers for a direct dependency by right-clicking on Red color diamond button.

Click button <img src = "images/btn_adjust_canvas.png"> to adjust the “Canvas Size” and button <img src = "images/btn_toggle-minimap.png">  for “Toggle Minimap”.

<img src = "images/figure_5.6.png" width="735" height="415" align="middle">

## Multi-Dependency and Multi-Capability
A component can have more than one dependency and capability respectively. The following figure illustrates the multi dependency and multi-capability feature of Harmony and shown with square block unlike a diamond block in single dependency. For example, in the below figure File System component is dependent on SD Card (SPI), SDHC and MEMORY components respectively whereas each of these exposes a DRV_MEDIA capability.

<img src = "images/figure_5.7.png" width="735" height="410" align="middle">

## Container or Group Creation
The following are different group options. The Root is the default group. See the figure 5.9 below.

- **Create Group** or click <img src = "images/btn_create_group.png"> : Creates a group. If user selects any component and clicks <img src = "images/btn_create_group.png">, then a pop-up is shown asking to automatically add selected components to the new group.
- **Disband Group** or click <img src = "images/btn_disband_group.png"> : Deletes a selected group. User can delete one group at a time. If user selects any component and clicks <img src = "images/btn_disband_group.png">, then a pop-up is shown asking to delete selected group.
- **Add selected to Group/Container** or click <img src = "images/btn_add_to_group.png">: Adds selected component in to a target container. On clicking <img src = "images/btn_add_to_group.png"> a pop-up with drop down menu option is shown asking user to select the target container.
- **View selected Group/Container** or click <img src = "images/btn_view_group.png">: Select a group and click <img src = "images/btn_view_group.png"> or double click a group to view the components grouped together in a container.
- **Configure Group Node** or click <img src = "images/btn_configure_group.png"> : Select a group then click <img src = "images/btn_configure_group.png">  to display the connections of the components if any. On clicking <img src = "images/btn_configure_group.png"> a pop-up window is displayed showing the tabular list of available nodes, select the nodes to display in the group.
- **Select Next Highest Group** or click <img src = "images/btn_select_next_group.png">: Selects the next highest group available. Root is the default group. Select a group and click <img src = "images/btn_view_group.png">  or double click a group to view the components grouped together in a container then to select next highest group click <img src = "images/btn_select_next_group.png"> or to select a group under a drop down

    <img src = "images/figure_5.9.png" width="700" height="285" align="middle">

    Multiple components added to group or container. This helps in simplifying the Project Graph view. The following figure illustrates the grouping of SPI Driver and SPI PLIB components. Similarly, user can create any number of group or container based on the requirement. Say for example separate container for TCP/IP and USB and so on. or based on the application need.

    <img src = "images/figure_5.10.png" width="700" height="300" align="middle">

## Note
<span style="color:blue"> *This page has been verified with the following versions of software tools:*</span>
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.9.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.9.1)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.9.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.9.0)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.7.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.7.2)
- MPLAB Harmony 3 Launcher Plugin v3.6.4
- [MPLAB X IDE v5.50](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
- [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v3.00](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally there could be minor differences with the newer versions of the tools. </span>

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()

Commit message:

[DOCS] Added MCC support note for basic pages. M32MM-1450

source/basic/mhc_project_graph/readme.md, after:

---
title: MHC Project Graph
parent: Harmony Basics
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)

<span style="color:blue">

### Note
**MPLAB Harmony v3 is now configurable through MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC). Though the instructions in this guide are for the MPLAB Harmony Configurator (MHC), the flow and experience of creating a project, configuring peripherals, and generating code using MCC is similar. Refer to the below links for specific instructions to use MPLAB Harmony v3 with MCC.**
- [Create a new MPLAB Harmony v3 project using MCC](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:getting-started-training-module-using-mcc)
- [Update and Configure an Existing MHC-based MPLAB Harmony v3 Project to MCC-based Project](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:update-and-configure-existing-mhc-proj-to-mcc-proj)
- [Getting Started with MPLAB Harmony v3 Using MPLAB Code Configurator](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdhltTWaDp0)

</span>


# MHC Project Graph
The Project Graph displays all the instantiated component blocks. In Figure below BSP, USART and STDIO modules from Peripherals (CSP), I2C module from Harmony Core Driver, and FreeRTOS from Third-Party Software components are activated. MHC uses concept of Capability and Dependency for easy instantiation of modules.

## Generic Capability and Dependency
A generic capability has a common name that identifies an interface that can be provided by a component but does not have an implementation of its own. One or more other components must implement the capability as shown in the following figure.

<img src = "images/figure_5.6.png" width="710" height="375" align="middle">


- Point 1: Indicates the concept of Generic capabilities and dependency, i.e. FreeRTOS has exposed a generic capability on “RTOS” on which Harmony Core Service has created a generic dependency, up on satisfying these generic dependencies the color will turn to Green. Non-required dependencies are indicated as Yellow and indicate optional functionality that will not inhibit the operation of the component if absent. Required dependencies will display as Red, indicating that an error will likely occur during generation, compilation, or at runtime if the dependency is not satisfied. Similarly, Harmony Core Service has exposed a generic capability “Core Service” on which I2C driver has created a generic dependency. Generic dependencies connect automatically to generic capabilities and no connector line is required to bind the two.
- Point 2: Indicates how I2C dependency is satisfied by binding with the capability TWIHS0. The left side block is a capability i.e. TWIHS0 and the right-side block is a dependency i.e. “Instance 0” I2C.
- Point 3: Indicates how a new component can be generated at run-time by clicking button <img src = "images/btn_new_component.png"> creates a new generator database component. A generator database component can create unique instances of itself as needed. This is for things like components like bit-bang drivers that are defined in software, and thus can be added several times to a project if desired. Similarly, by clicking button <img src = "images/btn_delete_component.png">  deletes a component instantly.
- Point 4: Indicates the available capability of I2C driver. As mention above a non-required dependency is indicated as Yellow and indicates optional functionality that will not inhibit the operation of the component if absent.
- Point 5: Options to create, disband, add selected, view selected and configure group or container respectively. This is explained in detail in Section 5.3.2 Project Group Creation.
The following figure illustrates the unsatisfied direct dependency for I2C driver. User can see the list of satisfiers for a direct dependency by right-clicking on Red color diamond button.

Click button <img src = "images/btn_adjust_canvas.png"> to adjust the “Canvas Size” and button <img src = "images/btn_toggle-minimap.png">  for “Toggle Minimap”.

<img src = "images/figure_5.6.png" width="735" height="415" align="middle">

## Multi-Dependency and Multi-Capability
A component can have more than one dependency and capability respectively. The following figure illustrates the multi dependency and multi-capability feature of Harmony and shown with square block unlike a diamond block in single dependency. For example, in the below figure File System component is dependent on SD Card (SPI), SDHC and MEMORY components respectively whereas each of these exposes a DRV_MEDIA capability.

<img src = "images/figure_5.7.png" width="735" height="410" align="middle">

## Container or Group Creation
The following are different group options. The Root is the default group. See the figure 5.9 below.

- **Create Group** or click <img src = "images/btn_create_group.png"> : Creates a group. If user selects any component and clicks <img src = "images/btn_create_group.png">, then a pop-up is shown asking to automatically add selected components to the new group.
- **Disband Group** or click <img src = "images/btn_disband_group.png"> : Deletes a selected group. User can delete one group at a time. If user selects any component and clicks <img src = "images/btn_disband_group.png">, then a pop-up is shown asking to delete selected group.
- **Add selected to Group/Container** or click <img src = "images/btn_add_to_group.png">: Adds selected component in to a target container. On clicking <img src = "images/btn_add_to_group.png"> a pop-up with drop down menu option is shown asking user to select the target container.
- **View selected Group/Container** or click <img src = "images/btn_view_group.png">: Select a group and click <img src = "images/btn_view_group.png"> or double click a group to view the components grouped together in a container.
- **Configure Group Node** or click <img src = "images/btn_configure_group.png"> : Select a group then click <img src = "images/btn_configure_group.png">  to display the connections of the components if any. On clicking <img src = "images/btn_configure_group.png"> a pop-up window is displayed showing the tabular list of available nodes, select the nodes to display in the group.
- **Select Next Highest Group** or click <img src = "images/btn_select_next_group.png">: Selects the next highest group available. Root is the default group. Select a group and click <img src = "images/btn_view_group.png">  or double click a group to view the components grouped together in a container then to select next highest group click <img src = "images/btn_select_next_group.png"> or to select a group under a drop down

    <img src = "images/figure_5.9.png" width="700" height="285" align="middle">

    Multiple components added to group or container. This helps in simplifying the Project Graph view. The following figure illustrates the grouping of SPI Driver and SPI PLIB components. Similarly, user can create any number of group or container based on the requirement. Say for example separate container for TCP/IP and USB and so on. or based on the application need.

    <img src = "images/figure_5.10.png" width="700" height="300" align="middle">

## Note
<span style="color:blue"> *This page has been verified with the following versions of software tools:*</span>
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.9.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.9.1)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.9.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.9.0)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.7.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.7.2)
- MPLAB Harmony 3 Launcher Plugin v3.6.4
- [MPLAB X IDE v5.50](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
- [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v3.00](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally there could be minor differences with the newer versions of the tools. </span>

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()
