source/basic/mhc_window_manager_log_level/readme.md, before:

---
title: MHC Window manager and log level
parent: Harmony Basics
has_toc: false
nav_order: 9
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)

# Configuring MHC Plugin to select Window manager and log level
Select MHC Plugin configuration using ***Tools > Options > Plugins > MPLAB® Harmony 3 Launcher ***

## Window manager selection
The MHC plug-in will open either in a new window (standalone mode) or inside MPLAB® X window (native mode). Select window manager mode

<img src = "images/mhc_window_mode.png" width="750" height="660" align="middle">

## Log Level selection
There are three levels of logging available (ALL, DEBUG, USER). MHC displays the logs in the console window (seen at the bottom of the main window). It also saves them in the mhc.log file under .mh3 folder in user's home directory. This log level decides the kind of messages that will get logged.  Select the log level

<img src = "images/mhc_log_level.png" width="750" height="660" align="middle">

## Note
<span style="color:blue"> *This page has been verified with the following versions of software tools:*</span>
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.9.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.9.1)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.9.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.9.0)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.7.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.7.2)
- MPLAB Harmony 3 Launcher Plugin v3.6.4
- [MPLAB X IDE v5.50](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
- [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v3.00](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally there could be minor differences with the newer versions of the tools. </span>

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()

Commit message:

[DOCS] Added MCC support note for basic pages. M32MM-1450

source/basic/mhc_window_manager_log_level/readme.md, after:

---
title: MHC Window manager and log level
parent: Harmony Basics
has_toc: false
nav_order: 9
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[<img src="../../r_images/quick_home.png" title="Home">](../../../readme.md) [<img src="../../r_images/quick_back.png"  title="Back">](../readme.md)

<span style="color:blue">

### Note
**MPLAB Harmony v3 is now configurable through MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC). Though the instructions in this guide are for the MPLAB Harmony Configurator (MHC), the flow and experience of creating a project, configuring peripherals, and generating code using MCC is similar. Refer to the below links for specific instructions to use MPLAB Harmony v3 with MCC.**
- [Create a new MPLAB Harmony v3 project using MCC](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:getting-started-training-module-using-mcc)
- [Update and Configure an Existing MHC-based MPLAB Harmony v3 Project to MCC-based Project](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:update-and-configure-existing-mhc-proj-to-mcc-proj)
- [Getting Started with MPLAB Harmony v3 Using MPLAB Code Configurator](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdhltTWaDp0)

</span>

# Configuring MHC Plugin to select Window manager and log level
Select MHC Plugin configuration using ***Tools > Options > Plugins > MPLAB® Harmony 3 Launcher ***

## Window manager selection
The MHC plug-in will open either in a new window (standalone mode) or inside MPLAB® X window (native mode). Select window manager mode

<img src = "images/mhc_window_mode.png" width="750" height="660" align="middle">

## Log Level selection
There are three levels of logging available (ALL, DEBUG, USER). MHC displays the logs in the console window (seen at the bottom of the main window). It also saves them in the mhc.log file under .mh3 folder in user's home directory. This log level decides the kind of messages that will get logged.  Select the log level

<img src = "images/mhc_log_level.png" width="750" height="660" align="middle">

## Note
<span style="color:blue"> *This page has been verified with the following versions of software tools:*</span>
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.9.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.9.1)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.9.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.9.0)
- [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.7.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.7.2)
- MPLAB Harmony 3 Launcher Plugin v3.6.4
- [MPLAB X IDE v5.50](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
- [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v3.00](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally there could be minor differences with the newer versions of the tools. </span>

## Reference Links
[<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mcus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/32_bit_mpus.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_x_ide.png"> </a>]()  &nbsp; &nbsp; [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_harmony.png"> </a>]() [<a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank"> <img src="../../r_images/mplab_compiler.png"> </a>]()
