migration/introduction_mplabx_harmony_3_to_studio_asf_users/readme.md, before:

---
title: Introduction to MPLABX and Harmony 3 to Atmel Studio and ASF Users
parent: Migration
has_toc: false
nav_order: 6
---

# Introduction to MPLAB and Harmony 3 for Atmel Studio and ASF users

This page overviews introduction to MPLAB® X IDE and MPLAB Harmony v3 framework for the users to get started with new tools and solutions for 32-bit Arm microcontrollers. This page guides Atmel Studio, Atmel START and ASF users to familiarize with MPLAB X IDE and MPLAB Harmony 3.

The page also guides to the description of MPLAB X IDE features, MPLAB Harmony v3 architecture, and cite references to equivalent features in Atmel Studio or ASF to enable better understanding.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a> 
## Web Links

- [Introduction to MPLAB and Harmony v3 for Atmel Studio and ASF users](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/Appnotes/Introduction_to_MPLAB_X_IDE_and_Harmonyv3_for_%20Atmel_Studio_and_ASF_%20Users_DS00003346A.pdf)

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated based on review comments and updated external links to open in new tab. M32MM-459

migration/introduction_mplabx_harmony_3_to_studio_asf_users/readme.md, after:

---
title: Introduction to MPLABX and Harmony 3 to Atmel Studio and ASF Users
parent: Migration
has_toc: false
nav_order: 6
---

# Introduction to MPLAB and Harmony 3 for Atmel Studio and ASF users

This page overviews introduction to MPLAB® X IDE and MPLAB Harmony v3 framework for the users to get started with new tools and solutions for 32-bit Arm microcontrollers. This page guides Atmel Studio, Atmel START and ASF users to familiarize with MPLAB X IDE and MPLAB Harmony 3.

The page also guides to the description of MPLAB X IDE features, MPLAB Harmony v3 architecture, and cite references to equivalent features in Atmel Studio or ASF to enable better understanding.

For more information refer the **[links](#Web-Links)** below.

## <a id="Web-Links"> </a>
## Web Links

- <a href="http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/Appnotes/Introduction_to_MPLAB_X_IDE_and_Harmonyv3_for_%20Atmel_Studio_and_ASF_%20Users_DS00003346A.pdf" target="_blank">Introduction to MPLAB and Harmony v3 for Atmel Studio and ASF users</a>


## Reference Links
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit" target="_blank">Microchip 32-bit MCUs</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB X IDE</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony" target="_blank">Microchip MPLAB Harmony</a>
- <a href="https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers" target="_blank">MPLAB XC32/32++ C Compiler</a>
